[Music]
this program for breaking news now the
Israeli military has bombed the alphakor
school in the northern Gaza Strip now
this is a United Nations run School
inside the jabalia refugee camp this is
also the second school that was bombed
since Friday well let's go straight to
our correspondent there on the ground
Tark abazo he's in K yunes that's in the
southern part of the Gaza Strip T we're
watching some pretty awful pictures in
the aftermath of this strike now this is
a school as we've been told in the
jabalia refugee camp we know that that
there have been multiple air strikes
taking place in that camp over the
course of the last few days tell us a
little bit more about what we know
happened
here yes um the jabalia refugee camp has
been bombarded Again by the Israeli
occupation forces and this time a new
United Nations shelter had been
completely attacked by the Israeli Air
Forces where people are taking sh filter
inside this school now with the ongoing
attacks that took place in the north of
Gaza Strip the majority of people tend
to United Nations shelters and the
vicinity of the Indonesian Hospital in
order to be protected from the Israeli
occupation fire meanwhile those schools
must be protected by the principles of
the international law and there are also
must be uh at least be safe from the
Israeli Relentless attacks that took
place people were taking shelter there
and meanwhile they are suffering from a
diversity of uh generally hard situation
including the humanitarian and even the
medical condition there people are still
generally till now inside this school
and in this in different schools in
jabalia refugee camp and this attack
considered to be not the only attack
that took place on schools but it had
been carried out similar attacks before
in schools and bakeries and hospitals at
water tank which clearly a clear goal
that Israel is in order to force people
to flee to the south of Gaza Strip on
for meanwhile the southern areas are
witnessing the same level of bombardment
as the north of Gaza STP Tara I firstly
just want to apologize to our viewers
who are joining us now some of these are
pretty graphic images some of them have
been blurred but these are obviously the
latest pictures that we're getting from
the scene of the aftermath of that air
strike so I apologize if you are being
disturbed by some of the images you're
seeing obviously there are some bodies
there and we are seeing some children
also on the scene T tell us a little bit
more about what's been happening at
Valia because this is a school as we've
been saying inside that camp and that
camp has clearly been a target for the
Israelis yes uh jabalia refugee camp
generally in the normal days is very
densely populated area some of the
residents inside this refugee camp had
fled to the south of Gaza Strip as the
Israeli occupation forces recommended
While others did not find any safe
shelter so they left the houses they
left the Farms they left the lands and
they wanted to take shelter in United
Nations Affiliated schools meanwhile
they are not even protected in the
United Nations schools and they have
been multiply hit by the occupation
forces it's also important to understand
that each School in the North or even in
the south of Gaza Strip is very crowded
with people it seems any attack that
would take place inside one of these
schools will cause catastrophic loss in
lives and also will cause such dramatic
uh change in the situation on the north
where people are taking shelter of
course till now the Palestinian Ministry
of Health the ambulances are trying to
do the best in order to rescue uh the
people who have been targeted by the
Israel occupation forces wait waiting
for further confirmation from the
Palestinian Ministry about the final
number of death tool and injured people
but similarly as it's going to be much
more crowded with people it's expected
that the number of people who are going
to be wounded in due to this attack will
rise and even the Medical Teams till now
are evacuating victims from the location
of the targeting mhm as you say t very
very very densely populated part of a
very densely populated Gaza Strip now
just to flag one of the other things you
mentioned there this was an unra School
a un run facility and people were were
there seeking shelter now we've heard
from unra themselves that they no longer
feel that they can offer protection to
people under the UN flag we were hearing
this from from the aaza director Ju Just
a couple of weeks ago they've also told
us that they provide the coordinates to
all of their shelters to to all of their
schools to the Israelis so they know
exactly where people are seeking shelter
these are civilians who've been in a un
run school as you've been seeing there
have there are bodies there of of women
and children do we have a sense TK and I
know this is a difficult question of how
many people are now left in Northern
Gaza obviously tens of thousands
hundreds of thousands have now fled
South where there are also bombardments
taking place but how many people are
left up
[Music]
north yes uh there are still people uh
at the north of the Gaza Strip are
talking about thousands of people who
refuse to flee the houses meanwhile the
occupation is trying to attack all means
of lives surrounding those people in
order to force them to know or to no
more have options to remain in the north
of Gaza Strip thus they will be a forced
to evacuate to the south of the
territory as they are forced also to
walk for long distance in order to reach
the southern areas which is far away
from the Northern areas with uh dozens
of kilometers which will it really be a
very dangerous and risky Journey for
those in the north of the territory as
they are already running low in fuel uh
water and even they are facing a severe
problem in terms of having access to
food uh they are talking about very
catastrophic consequences and conditions
they are witnessing in the north as
there's no any humanitarian Aid had been
delivered and also people there they say
that we don't have any other safe
shelter to go we are in our houses we
have been bombarded we went to the
hospitals it also was attacked were
attacked and at the same time even
United Nations shelters are not yet at
safe place for us so they are trying to
push them to move to the South meanwhile
similar attacks had been had been
carried out in the south of the Gaza STP
yeah t you were you were saying there
that this is all part of a strategy to
push people South we've also obviously
just over the course of the morning
seeing the forced evacuation of alifa
Hospital complex gaza's largest hospital
people there several thousand people
being being forced to leave including
Doctors medical staff and patients can
you give us a sense of where the Israeli
military strategy is now we've been
hearing that there is this push South
clearly they they feel that they're
trying to take control of the north give
us a sense of of where Israeli troops
are right now and where that fighting is
taking
place yes the Israeli troops are uh
firstly they they started the ground
Invasion from the Eastern areas of Gaza
Strip we are talking about the eastern
areas of banon and the northwest of B
here the coastal line of the territory
as they managed to reach as refugee camp
with under artillery bombardment and
then they managed to access a shifa
hospital uh and as they access the
shifat hospital they were forced to
deploy uh snipers and they are taking
full control over the vicinity of a
shifat hospital now they made different
kinds of runs inside the buildings of a
shifat hospitals where doctors are not
yet able to move freely without feeling
any threat between the buildings and the
department of the hospital and it's was
also worth mention that the doctors
inside hospitals patients and even uh
wound displaced people are are not yet
safe as there are still be babies and
people inside this hospital and even if
they have afforded to be evacuated to
the south of the territory they need to
uh they need to walk for long distance
and there's going to be a multiple uh
and notable risk on the lives of those
patients and there are around uh 500
patients who cannot really uh evacuate
it unless they are afforded a very good
uh humanitarian and even Medical Care by
the Medical Teams yet till now they did
not reach the south of the Gaza Strip
and even if they reach the south of the
Gaza Strip especially for babies there
are no any uh safe place for them and as
the incubators inside the nasur hospital
the only Hospital in the South which can
receive those premature babies is a half
occupied we're talking about 12
incubators six of them were occupied so
it means that there is going to be a
kind of compounding in terms of the
number of the uh babies who receive
medical treatment in the south of Gaza
STP T abaz there with the latest for us
on what looks to be a devastating air
strike on a school in Northern Gaza
thank you Tark well if you are just
joining us here on Al jazer I do
apologize for the graphic images that
you're watching there's some blurring
there but obviously a large potentially
very large death toll at the alpura
school in the northern Gaza Strip which
we understand the Israeli military has
very recently bombed now this is a
United Nations run School in the jabalia
camp this is also the second school that
was bombed just since Friday